Clearinghouse Responsibilities

Section 4 / 11
1. Introduction
2. Before We Begin: Acronym Overview
3. What is the Clearinghouse?
4. Clearinghouse Responsibilities
5. Available Information
6. Types of Queries
7. Managing DAT Programs
8. Program Options with Foley
9. Helpful Handouts
10. Helpful Handouts
11. Quiz Time!
 Required
These people must register for the Clearinghouse AND are responsible for the following:

Employers

must run queries in the Clearinghouse for all CDL drivers during their employment to check for violations
new hires must have a pre-employment query
queries must be run annually during employment of CDL drivers to check for violations that may have been reported
need to be able to show that all employees have had one query by the end of the year

Hide
CDL Drivers

all employed CDL drivers need to be registered with the Clearinghouse before employment
if they are out of compliance, they can be taken out of service
will need to sign a consent form before any queries can be done
they cannot operate if they have a reported drug and/or alcohol violation without a completed return-to-duty process

Hide
Medical Review Officers (MROs)

must report all positive drug test results and test refusals

Hide
Substance Abuse Professionals (SAPs)

must report return to duty initial assessments and eligibility statuses for return to duty testing

Hide
Consortium/Third Party Administrators

their MRO reports all positive drug tests
their Operations team reports all positive alcohol tests
report the refusals of Owner/Operators ONLY
can run queries on behalf of employers
report return-to-duty status & test results

Hide
State Driver Licensing Agencies

must query the Clearinghouse prior to completing licensing transactions

The following information is made available in the Clearinghouse:
Positive DOT drug & alcohol results
Reports of drivers who were under the influence of drugs/alcohol while on duty
Alcohol use within 8 hours of an accident or until the post-accident report is complete
Refusal of a drug/alcohol test
The Clearinghouse must be queried, or checked, before hiring a new driver, as well as annually throughout each driver's employment. Information contained in the Clearinghouse is subject to both the Privacy Act and the Fair Credit Reporting Act (FCRA). Before a company or their TPA can query the Clearinghouse, they must get driver consent.

Until January 6, 2023, TPAs and employers must query the
Clearinghouse and request background check information
from past DOT-regulated employers.

Violation data is available in the Clearinghouse for 5 years, or until the return-to-duty process is complete

