
All new entrants must go through a safety audit within the first 6-18 months of their probationary period, depending on their location. This audit is performed on-site, aka at the company's place of business, so that auditors can check on safety procedures and 6 specific areas. These areas are focused on two main subjects: the driver and the truck.

Safety Audit Areas: On the Driver

Hours of Service

Driver Qualification Files

Drug & Alcohol Testing Programs


Hide
Safety Audit Areas: On the Truck

Insurance & Registration

Maintenance Files

Accident Register

Proof of Annual Inspection

Foley offers various driver file services, including:
Back of the flip card
Driver File Conversion

One time only on initial account set up
Creation of Active Driver Roster
Secure transfer of existing driver documents to Foley
Verification of valid license
Review for active Med Cert
Review to find MVR
Automatic MVR order if missing annual MVR
Back of the flip card
Driver File Audit

Review of current files to FMCSR 391 Standards
50 point inspection of a Driver’s File
Back of the flip card
Driver File Creation

Compliant DOT application
Auto-creation from the Applicant System
Foley manages previous employment verification process
Documented attempts for safety performance history
Motor Vehicle Report posted in file
Unlimited storage of DOT and Custom documents
Easy Med Cert & License uploads

 Driver Files

Section 9 / 12
1. Introduction
2. What is the DOT?
3. Meet the Operating Agencies
4. What is the FMCSA?
5. What are CMVs?
6. Who is a New Entrant?
7. New Entrant Safety Audits
8. Foley's Services: Driver Files
9. Foley's Services: Driver Files
10. Foley's Services: Drug & Alcohol Testing
11. Foley's Services: Clearinghouse
12. Quiz Time!
 Required

Back of the flip card
Driver File Management

All hierarchies supported
Live Compliance Scoring
Alerts on compliance items
Simple or complex reporting on employees
60 Day Notices on Licenses and Med Certs
Automated alerts to driver or user initiated driver alerts
Driver self upload through mobile device

Back of the flip card
Premium Document Review

Foley compliance specialists review new doc uploads
Detailed review of license for compliance
Verification of Med Cert physicians status in DOT registry
Foley also offers driver qualification services:
Back of the flip card
Driver Self Service

Automated Alert to driver
Secure mobile upload
Manual initiation option
Reminders sent to driver
Automated alerts to driver or user initiated driver alerts
Driver self upload thru mobile device or any internet device
Back of the flip card
Custom Document Upload

Upload any document needed along side of DOT File
Set Future Action Notices
Alerts fire on due dates

Foley offers the following drug & alcohol testing related services:
Drug & Alcohol Testing Program

Full Third Party Administrator Services
In-House Medical Review Services
1.74 Day turnaround time
Electronic Chain of Custody Form System
10,000+ Collection Sites | 3,000+ electronic sites
DOT Physicals

Electronic Ordering Platform
Close loop electronic process
FMCSA Medical Examiner Registered Guaranteed
Foley also offers programs that aid our clients who must report to the Clearinghouse:
DAT Clear

Pre-Employment Full Queries
Driver Technology for acquiring consent and registration
Automated Annual Queries
Consultants to guide clients and drivers
Employer Reporting

Violation Reporting
Tracking of Return to Duty / Follow Up Process
Full Integration with Foley’s DAT programs
Regulation and Clearinghouse Updates